S = "alabaalaalabadaalabarda"
digrams = {
    "la": 4,
    "al": 4,
    "ba": 3,
    "ab": 3,
    "aa": 3,
    "da": 2,
    "rd": 1,
    "ar": 1,
    "ad": 1,
}
---
select "la" as digram with highest frequency
choose "A" as non-terminal
replace "la" with "A"
S = "aAbaaAaAbadaaAbarda"
digrams = {
    "aA": 4,
    "Ab": 3,
    "ba": 3,
    "aa": 2,
    "Aa": 1,
    "ad": 1,
    "da": 2,
    "ar": 1,
    "rd": 1,
}
---
select "aA" as digram with highest frequency
choose "B" as non-terminal
replace "aA" with "B"
S = "BbaBBbadaBbarda"
digrams = {
    "Bb": 3,
    "ba": 3,
    "aB": 2,
    "BB": 1,
    "ad": 1,
    "da": 2,
    "ar": 1,
    "rd": 1,
}
---
select "Bb" as digram with highest frequency
choose "C" as non-terminal
replace "Bb" with "C"
S = "CaBCadaCarda"
digrams = {
    "Ca": 3,
    "aB": 1,
    "BC": 1,
    "ad": 1,
    "da": 2,
    "aC": 1,
    "ar": 1,
    "rd": 1,
}
---
select "Ca" as digram with highest frequency
choose "D" as non-terminal
replace "Ca" with "D"
S = "DBDdaDrda"
digrams = {
    "DB": 1,
    "BD": 1,
    "da": 2,
    "aD": 1,
    "Dr": 1,
    "rd": 1,
}
---
select "da" as digram with highest frequency
choose "E" as non-terminal
replace "da" with "E"
S = "DBDEDrE"
digrams = {
    "DB": 1,
    "BD": 1,
    "DE": 1,
    "Dr": 1,
    "rE": 1,
}
---
Most frequent digram only appears once, so write
grammar = {
    "A": "la", # used 1 time (in B)
    "B": "aA", # used 1 time (in S), 1 time (in C)
    "C": "Bb", # used 1 time (in D)
    "D": "Ca", # used 3 times (in S)
    "E": "da", # used 2 times (in S)
    "S": "DBDEDrE", # used 1 time
}
We will prune "A" and "C" from the grammar, since they are only used once.
grammar = {
    "B": "ala", # used 1 time (in S), 1 time (in D)
    "D": "Bba", # used 3 times (in S)
    "E": "da", # used 2 times (in S)
    "S": "DBDEDrE", # used 1 time
}
No more pruning can be done, so we are done.
---
Computing the original string length is easy:

len(S)=len("DBDEDrE")=3*len("D")+1*len("B")+2*len("E")+1*len("r")

where len("B")=len("ala")=3, len("D")=len("Bba")=len("B")+len("ba")=3+2=5, len("E")=len("da")=2

so $len(S)=3*5+1*3+2*2+1*1=23$
---
How many letters "a" are there in the original string?
rank_a(S)=rank_a("DBDEDrE")=3*rank_a("D")+1*rank_a("B")+2*rank_a("E")+1*rank_a("r")

where rank_a("B")=rank_a("ala")=2, rank_a("D")=rank_a("Bba")=rank_a("B")+rank_a("ba")=2+1=3, rank_a("E")=rank_a("da")=1

so $rank_a(S)=3*3+1*2+2*1+1*0=13$
---
Where is the 11th letter "a" in the original string?
We will walk through the string, until we have seen 11 "a"s.

rank_a("DBDE")=9
rank_a("DBDED")=12
so its in the second a inside of "D"
rank_a("B")=2 # first prefix of "D"
since 2 >= 2, we will walk through "B"
rank_a("a")=1
rank_a("al")=1
rank_a("ala")=2
# found 11th "a" in "ala" at position 2 in B
# where B is at position 0 in D
# where D is at position len(DBDE)=15 in S
# so the 11th "a" is at position 15+0+2=17 in S
---
Predecessor of "S/4:E/1:d"
We go from right to left for an element to decrement.
We will have to decrement "S/4", since all elements to the right of it are minimal already.
Once we have decremented "S/4", we will have to set the part to the right of it to the maximal value.
So:
S/4:E/1:d -> S/3:D/2:a
---
We will replace the first "r" by an "x".
Rules containing "r" are:
S: DBDEDrE

So we will replace "S/4:r" by "S/4:x"
S: DBDEDrE -> DBDEExE
---
We will replace "S/3:D/1:B/2:l" and "S/2:B/2:l" by "k"

grammar = {
    "B": "ala",
    "B'": "aka",
    "D": "Bba",
    "D'": "B'ba",
    "E": "da",
    <!-- "S": "DBDEDrE", -->
    "S": "DB'D'EDrE",
}
---
We will replace "S/3:D/1:B/1:a" with "v" and "S/2:B/3:a" with "w"

grammar = {
    "B": "ala",
    "B'": "vla",
    "B''": "alw",
    "D": "Bba",
    "D'": "B'ba",
    "E": "da",
    "S": "DB''D'EDrE",
}
---
We will insert a letter "r" after "S/3:D/1:B/3:a"

grammar = {
    "B": "ala",
    "D": "Bba",
    "D'": "Brba",
    "E": "da",
    "S": "DBD'EDrE",
}