capture01.pcap:

Welche SSL/TLS Versionen werden vom Client von der ersten Verbindung
unterstützt?
- a?
---

Welche Diffie-Hellman-Gruppen werden vom Client von der ersten Verbindung
unterstützt?
- a,b,c,d,e

---
Für welche Gruppen hätte der Handshake so wirklich funktioniert?
- x25519, weil key_share

---

Welche SSL/TLS Versionen werden vom Client von der zweiten Verbindung
unterstützt?
- F

---

capture02.pcap:

Wie viele Extensions werden verschlüsselt übertragen?
- A=0

---

Was für ApplicationData wird übertragen?

-C: "\n"

---

Welche Nachricht wird in dem Handshake geschickt, die nicht in dem vorgestellten
Handshake vorkommt

- C: ChangeCipherSpec

---

Was könnte der Grund dafür sein diese Handshake Message (aus Frage 3) zu
schicken?


5.  Record Protocol

   The TLS record protocol takes messages to be transmitted, fragments
   the data into manageable blocks, protects the records, and transmits
   the result.  Received data is verified, decrypted, reassembled, and
   then delivered to higher-level clients.

   TLS records are typed, which allows multiple higher-level protocols
   to be multiplexed over the same record layer.  This document
   specifies four content types: handshake, application_data, alert, and
   change_cipher_spec.  The change_cipher_spec record is used only for
   compatibility purposes (see Appendix D.4).

   An implementation may receive an unencrypted record of type
   change_cipher_spec consisting of the single byte value 0x01 at any
   time after the first ClientHello message has been sent or received
   and before the peer's Finished message has been received and MUST
   simply drop it without further processing.  Note that this record may
   appear at a point at the handshake where the implementation is
   expecting protected records, and so it is necessary to detect this
   condition prior to attempting to deprotect the record.  An
   implementation which receives any other change_cipher_spec value or
   which receives a protected change_cipher_spec record MUST abort the
   handshake with an "unexpected_message" alert.  If an implementation
   detects a change_cipher_spec record received before the first
   ClientHello message or after the peer's Finished message, it MUST be
   treated as an unexpected record type (though stateless servers may
   not be able to distinguish these cases from allowed cases).



Rescorla                     Standards Track                   [Page 77]


RFC 8446                           TLS                       August 2018

...

D.4.  Middlebox Compatibility Mode

   Field measurements [Ben17a] [Ben17b] [Res17a] [Res17b] have found
   that a significant number of middleboxes misbehave when a TLS
   client/server pair negotiates TLS 1.3.  Implementations can increase
   the chance of making connections through those middleboxes by making
   the TLS 1.3 handshake look more like a TLS 1.2 handshake:

   -  The client always provides a non-empty session ID in the
      ClientHello, as described in the legacy_session_id section of
      Section 4.1.2.

   -  If not offering early data, the client sends a dummy
      change_cipher_spec record (see the third paragraph of Section 5)
      immediately before its second flight.  This may either be before
      its second ClientHello or before its encrypted handshake flight.
      If offering early data, the record is placed immediately after the
      first ClientHello.

   -  The server sends a dummy change_cipher_spec record immediately
      after its first handshake message.  This may either be after a
      ServerHello or a HelloRetryRequest.

   When put together, these changes make the TLS 1.3 handshake resemble
   TLS 1.2 session resumption, which improves the chance of successfully
   connecting through middleboxes.  This "compatibility mode" is
   partially negotiated: the client can opt to provide a session ID or
   not, and the server has to echo it.  Either side can send

...

   -  The handshake state machine has been significantly restructured to
      be more consistent and to remove superfluous messages such as
      ChangeCipherSpec (except when needed for middlebox compatibility).

   -  Elliptic curve algorithms are now in the base spec, and new
      signature algorithms, such as EdDSA, are included.  TLS 1.3
      removed point format negotiation in favor of a single point format
      for each curve.




Rescorla                     Standards Track                    [Page 8]


RFC 8446                           TLS                       August 2018
